.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
encode-base64 \-  (base64)
.SH PURPOSE
Base64 encode.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

encode-base64 <data> to <output data> \\
    [ input-length <input length> ] 

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
encode-base64 will encode string <data> into base64 string <output data>.

If "input-length" clause is used, then <input length> is the number of bytes encoded, otherwise the entirety of <data> is encoded. 

The result is stored in <output data> (in "to" clause).

Base64-encoded strings are often used where binary data needs to be in a format that complies with certain text-based protocols, such as in attaching documents in email, or embedding binary documents (such as "JPG" images for example) in web pages with "data:image/jpg;base64..." specified, etc.

.SH EXAMPLES
An example that encodes a string, decodes, and finally checks if they match:

.RS 4
.EX

// Original string, generally this would be binary data in most cases
set-string dt ="  oh well  "

// Encode in base64
encode-base64 dt to out_dt 

decode-base64 out_dt to new_dt

if-true dt equal new_dt
    @Success!
else-if
    @Failure!
end-if

.EE
.RE

In the next example, "input-length" clause is used, and only a partial of the input string is encoded, then later compared to the original:

.RS 4
.EX

// Original string, generally this would be binary data in most cases
set-string dt ="  oh well  "

// Encode in base64, encode only 6 bytes
encode-base64 dt input-length 6 to out_dt

decode-base64 out_dt to new_dt

// Get length of decoded string
string-length new_dt to new_len

if-true new_len not-equal 6
    @Failure!
else-if
    @Success!
end-if

if-true dt equal new_dt length new_len
    @Success!
else-if
    @Failure! [<<p-out dt>>] [<<p-out new_dt>>]
end-if

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 Base64

\fBdecode-base64\fP  
\fBencode-base64\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
