.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
get-param \-  (request-data)
.SH PURPOSE
Get a parameter value.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

get-param ( <name> [ type <type> ] ) , ...

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
get-param stores a parameter value in variable <name>. A parameter is a name/value pair kept by Golf for each request. The parameter's name must match <name>. A parameter can be of any type. A parameter is set either:

.RS 4
\[bu]    
by the caller in \fBrequest URL\fP, or

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
with \fBset-param\fP statement anywhere during request's execution, including in \fBcall-handler\fP.
.RE

If parameter is a string, it is  trimmed for whitespaces (both on left and right). You can specify any number of parameters, separated by a comma.

.LP
.B TYPES
.LP

By default, <name> is a string variable, unless <type> (in "type" clause) is specified. <type> can be "string" for a string variable (the default), "bool" for a boolean variable, "number" for a number variable, "message" for a \fBmessage\fP variable, "split-string" for a \fBsplit-string\fP variable, "hash" for an \fBhash\fP variable, "tree" for an \fBtree\fP variable, "tree-cursor" for an \fBtree cursor\fP variable, "fifo" for a \fBFIFO\fP variable, "lifo" for a \fBLIFO\fP variable, "list" for a \fBlist\fP variable, "file" for a \fBfile\fP variable, and "service" for a \fBservice\fP variable.

The value obtained with get-param is checked to be of the proper <type>, and if it isn't, your request will \fBerror out\fP. The exception to this is that a string parameter can be converted into a number or a boolean, assuming the string value represents a valid number or is "true"/"false".  Parameters of "number" and "bool" types are obtained by value, and others by reference. It means for instance, that you can pass a tree to call-handler and read and write nodes there, and such changes will be visible in the caller request.

.LP
.B INPUT PARAMETERS FROM A CALLER
.LP

Input parameters from an outside caller are specified as name/value pairs (see \fBservice\fP or \fBcommand-line\fP). Input parameter name can be made up of alphanumeric characters, hyphen or underscore only and cannot start with a digit. Note that a hyphen is automatically converted to underscore, so for instance an input parameter "some-parameter" in HTTP request will be "some_parameter" in get-param. 

.B - File uploads

File uploads are handled as input parameters as well, see \fBfile-uploading\fP.

.B - Web input parameters

As an example, for HTML form input parameters named "param1" with value "value1" and "param2" with value "value2":

.RS 4
.EX

<input type='hidden' name='param1' value='value1'>
<input type='hidden' name='param2' value='value2'>

.EE
.RE

you can get these parameters and print out their values by using:

.RS 4
.EX

get-param param1, param2

.EE
.RE

A request may be in the form of a web link URL, and getting the parameter values is the same:

.RS 4
.EX

http://<your web server>/<app name>/<request name>&param1=value1&param2=value2

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B SETTING PARAMETERS DURING REQUEST'S EXECUTION
.LP

Use \fBset-param\fP to replace the value of an existing parameter, or create a new one. For instance:

.RS 4
.EX

get-param par1
\[char46]..
set-param par1="new value"

.EE
.RE

In this case the value of an existing parameter "par1" is replaced with "new value". In the following code a new parameter is created, which can be retrieved later with get-param:

.RS 4
.EX

set-param par1="new value"
get-param par1

.EE
.RE

See \fBcall-handler\fP for more examples.

.LP
.B DUPLICATE INPUT PARAMETER NAMES
.LP

If there are multiple input parameters with the same name set by the request caller, such as 

.RS 4
.EX

http://<web address>/<app name>/<request name>?par=val1&par=val2

.EE
.RE

the value of input parameter "par" is undefined. Do not specify multiple input parameters with the same name.
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Request data

\fBget-param\fP  
\fBrequest-body\fP  
\fBset-param\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
