.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
get-upload \-  (files)
.SH PURPOSE
Get information about file uploaded.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

get-upload <param> local-file <local file>  \\
    [ size <size> ] \\
    [ extension <extension> ] \\
    [ status <status> ] \\
    [ client-file <client file> ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
When a file is uploaded by Golf via any client (such as a browser, curl, \fBcall-web\fP etc.), you can obtain the full-path location in your local file system by using get-upload.

<param> is the name of the HTML parameter (in an HTML form used to upload the file, or otherwise specified in other clients such as curl or Golf's call-web).

<local file> (in "local-file" clause) is the full-path location of the local file (on your computer) where the file is uploaded (see \fBfile-storage\fP).

<size> (in "size" clause) is the size (in bytes) of the file uploaded.

<extension> (in "extension" clause) is the extension of the file uploaded (such as ".jpg"), if any. Note that the extension is always lower case; also ".jpeg" is always abbreviated as ".jpg".

<status> (in "status" clause) is the status of upload; it is GG_OKAY if successful and GG_ERR_EXIST if not (most likely <param> parameter is not found, i.e. there was no file uploaded).

<client file> (in "client-file" clause) is the file name as given by the client.

For more details, see \fBfile-uploading\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Files

\fBchange-mode\fP  
\fBclose-file\fP  
\fBcopy-file\fP  
\fBdelete-file\fP  
\fBfile-position\fP  
\fBfile-storage\fP  
\fBfile-uploading\fP  
\fBget-upload\fP  
\fBlock-file\fP  
\fBopen-file\fP  
\fBread-file\fP  
\fBread-line\fP  
\fBrename-file\fP  
\fBstat-file\fP  
\fBtemporary-file\fP  
\fBuniq-file\fP  
\fBunlock-file\fP  
\fBwrite-file\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
