.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
get-app \-  (application-information)
.SH PURPOSE
Obtain data that describes the application.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

get-app \\
        name | directory | file-directory | 
        ( user-directory [ user <user> ] ) | \\
        ( socket-file [ user <user> ] [ application <app> ] ) \\
        | db-vendor <database configuration> | upload-size \\
        | path | is-service | stack-depth \\
    to <variable>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
Application-related variables can be obtained with get-app statement. The following application variables can be obtained (they are all strings unless indicated otherwise):

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"name" returns the name of your application, as specified when created (see \fBmgrg\fP). 

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"directory" is the directory where your application resides, i.e. the application home directory (see \fBdirectories\fP).

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"user-directory" is the user directory, i.e a directory that houses all applications that belong to the user (see \fBdirectories\fP). If "user" is not given, then user is the current Operating system user; otherwise user is <user>. 

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"socket-file" is the socket-file used to communicate with an application (see \fBnew-remote\fP, \fBggcli\fP, \fBClient-API\fP). If neither "user" nor "application" subclauses are given, then user is current Operating system user and application is the currently running application. If "user" subclause is given, then user is <user>. If "application" subclause is specified, then application is <application>. 

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"is-service" is a boolean variable that is true if your code is running as a \fBservice\fP, or false if it is running as a \fBcommand-line\fP program.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"file-directory" is the directory where Golf file storage system is, i.e. \fBfile-storage\fP.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"db-vendor" is the database vendor name of database given by <database configuration> (as used for example in \fBrun-query\fP). You can use it to create database specific conditions. The database vendor name can be compared against predefined string constants GG_MARIADB (for MariaDB database), GG_POSTGRES (for Postgres database) and GG_SQLITE (for SQLite database).

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"path" is the leading path of the URL request that can be used to build web forms and links leading back to your application. It returns the same value as used in \fBprint-path\fP before <request path> is appended.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"stack-depth" is the maximum allowed stack depth for calling handlers, including recursion.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"upload-size" is the maximum allowed size of an uploaded file - this is a number (see \fBgg\fP for setting this value).
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES
Get the name of Golf application:

.RS 4
.EX

get-app name to appname

.EE
.RE

Get the vendor of database db:

.RS 4
.EX

get-app db-vendor db to dbv
if-true dbv equal GG_POSTGRES
    // do something Postgres specific
end-if

.EE
.RE

