.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
ggcli \-  (FastCGI-client)
.SH PURPOSE
FastCGI client utility.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

ggcli <address:port> | <Unix socket>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
ggcli will contact FastCGI server running on TCP/IP machine specified by <address:port>, where address can be an IP of the machine or its address, and port is the port number. For local sockets, use <Unix socket>, which is a file name of a socket used by the server; note you need to have proper permissions to access this socket file.

ggcli will send a request to the server, receive a reply and display it to standard output. Any errors are displayed to standard error stream.

Use standard environment variables in order to specify the details of the request. The environment variables recognized by ggcli are CONTENT_TYPE, CONTENT_LENGTH, REQUEST_METHOD, SCRIPT_NAME, PATH_INFO, QUERY_STRING (which are all standard HTTP CGI variables), as well as Golf's variable GG_SILENT_HEADER which is used to suppress header output (value of "yes" will do that).

The above variables are not explained here; you can find much about them in many other sources. Please note that if CONTENT_LENGTH is specified, then ggcli expect content data to be provided to its standard input.

You can see the examples of setting the above environment variables and the usage of ggcli if you use "-r" option of \fBgg\fP; if you skip "--exec" option, gg will display the settings and the usage of ggcli utility.

Note that you should be able to use ggcli when talking to any FastCGI server (such as PHP), not just Golf.
.SH SEE ALSO
 FastCGI client

\fBggcli\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
