.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
json-doc \-  (JSON-parsing)
.SH PURPOSE
Parse JSON text.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

json-doc <text> to <json> \\
    [ status <status> ] [ length <length> ] [ noencode ] [ no-enum ] \\
    [ error-text <error text> ] \\
        [ error-position <error position> ] \\
        [ error-line <line> ] \\
        [ error-char <char> ] 

json-doc  delete <json>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
json-doc will parse JSON <text> into <json> variable, which can be used with \fBread-json\fP to get the data.

The length of <text> may be specified with "length" clause in <length> variable, or if not, it will be the string length of <text>.

The "status" clause specifies the return <status> number, which is GG_OKAY if successful or GG_ERR_JSON if there is an error. The number <error position> in "error-position" clause is the byte position in <text> where error was found (starting with "0"), in which case <error text> in "error-text" clause is the error message. You can also obtain the error's line number (with number <line> in clause "error-line") and the character position within that line (with number <char> in clause "error-char").

"noencode" clause will not encode strings, i.e. convert from JSON Unicode strings to UTF, nor will it perform any validity checks on strings. This may be useful as a performance boost or to pass along strings unencoded, however in most cases it is not needed.

"no-enum" clause will not include indexing of arrays in normalized names (with "[..]"), see \fBread-json\fP. This is useful if you want to check the path of each data element, and not worry about counting them; this happens often when using JSON in a structured way to transfer arrays when data elements repeat in a predictable fashion. Parsing of JSON is also faster with "no-enum".

The maximum depth of nested structures in JSON document (i.e. objects and arrays) is 32, and the maximum length of normalized leaf node name is 1024 (see \fBread-json\fP for more on normalized names). There is no limit on document size.

.LP
.B DELETING
.LP

To delete a JSON variable, use "delete" clause with the <json>. This will delete all memory associated with it, and the variable <json> itself.

.SH EXAMPLES
Parse the following JSON document and display all keys and values from it. You can use them as they come along, or store them into \fBnew-hash\fP or \fBnew-tree\fP for instance for searching of large documents. This also demonstrates usage of UTF8 characters:

.RS 4
.EX


// JSON to parse
set-string jd unquoted = {"menu":\\
    {"id": "file",\\
    "value": 23091,\\
    "active": false,\\
    "popup":\\
        {"menuitem":\\
            [{"value": "New", "onclick": "CreateNewDoc with\euD834\euDD1Emusic"},\\
            {"value": "Open", "onclick": "OpenDoc() with \euD834\euDD1E\euD834\euDD1E"},\\
            {"value": "Close", "onclick": "\euD834\euDD1ECloseDoc()"}\\
            ]\\
        }\\
    }\\
}

// Parse JSON
json-doc jd status st error-text et error-position ep to nj

// Check parsing okay, if not display error details
if-true st not-equal GG_OKAY
    @Error [<<p-out et>>] at [<<p-num ep>>]
    exit-handler -1
end-if

// Display all data elements in order from top to bottom
start-loop
    read-json nj key k value v type t next
    if-true t equal GG_JSON_TYPE_NONE
        break-loop
    end-if
    @Key [<<p-out k>>]
    @Value [<<p-out v>>]
    @Type [<<p-num t>>]
    @--------
end-loop
@

// Delete JSON document
json-doc delete nj

.EE
.RE

The output would be:

.RS 4
.EX

Key ["menu"."id"]
Value [file]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."value"]
Value [23091]
Type [1]
--------
Key ["menu"."active"]
Value [false]
Type [3]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[0]."value"]
Value [New]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[0]."onclick"]
Value [CreateNewDoc with𝄞music]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[1]."value"]
Value [Open]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[1]."onclick"]
Value [OpenDoc() with 𝄞𝄞]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[2]."value"]
Value [Close]
Type [0]
--------
Key ["menu"."popup"."menuitem"[2]."onclick"]
Value [𝄞CloseDoc()]
Type [0]
--------

.EE
.RE

Note that if "no-enum" were used in json-doc, then all keys with arrays would not have "[..]", for instance the very last key above would be "menu"."popup"."menuitem"."onclick", i.e. there would be no indexing of arrays.
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - JSON parsing

\fBjson-doc\fP  
\fBread-json\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
