.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
lock-file \-  (files)
.SH PURPOSE
Locks file exclusively.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

lock-file <file path> id <lock id> [ status <status> ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
lock-file attempts to create file with the full path of <file path> (deleting it if existed), and exclusively lock it. If successful, no other process can do the same unless current process ends or calls \fBunlock-file\fP. This statement is non-blocking, thus you can check in a sleepy loop for success (see \fBpause-program\fP). 

<file path> should be either an existing or non-existing file with a valid file path. If existing, it will be deleted.

<lock id> (in "id" clause) is a file descriptor associated with locked file. 

<status> (in "status" clause) represents the status of file locking: GG_OKAY if successfully locked, GG_ERR_FAILED if cannot lock (likely because another process holds a lock), GG_ERR_INVALID if the path of the file is invalid (i.e. if it is empty), GG_ERR_CREATE if lock file cannot be created. 

Generally, this statement is used for process control. A process would use lock-file to start working on a job that only one process can do at a time; once done, by using \fBunlock-file\fP statement, another process will be able to issue a successful lock-file call. Typically, lock-file is issued in a sleepy loop (see \fBpause-program\fP), waiting for a resource to be released.

Note that file lock is not carried across children processes (i.e. if your process creates children, such as with \fBexec-program\fP, then such children must obtain their own lock). In addition, if a process serving a request terminates before the request could issue \fBunlock-file\fP, the lock will be automatically released.

You can use any file name (likely choose a name that signifies the purpose of a lock, as long as you have permissions to create it), and create any number of them. This way you can create as many "binary semaphore"-like objects as you like.

.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 4
.EX

%% /locktest public
    // Get application home directory
    get-app directory to dir
    // Create lock file name
    write-string fname
    @<<p-out dir>>/.lock
    end-write-string
    // Enter loop in which something is done, OR, program waits for others to complete their work before doing its own
    set-number lockid
    start-loop
        // Attempt to lock file
        lock-file fname id lockid status lockst
        // Check the status of locking
        if-true lockst equal GG_OKAY
            // File successfully locked, simulate working for 20 seconds
            @WORKING
            pause-program 20000
            @DONE
            // Exit while loop
            break-loop
        else-if lockst equal GG_ERR_FAILED
            // Another process holds the lock, wait, try again for 1 second
            pause-program 1000
            @WAITING
            continue-loop
        else-if lockst equal GG_ERR_OPEN or lockst equal GG_ERR_INVALID
            // Errors
            @BAD LOCK
            exit-handler
        end-if
    end-loop
    // Once done, unlock file
    unlock-file id lockid
%%

.EE
.RE

%%
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Files

\fBchange-mode\fP  
\fBclose-file\fP  
\fBcopy-file\fP  
\fBdelete-file\fP  
\fBfile-position\fP  
\fBfile-storage\fP  
\fBfile-uploading\fP  
\fBlock-file\fP  
\fBopen-file\fP  
\fBread-file\fP  
\fBread-line\fP  
\fBrename-file\fP  
\fBstat-file\fP  
\fBtemporary-file\fP  
\fBuniq-file\fP  
\fBunlock-file\fP  
\fBwrite-file\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
