.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
new-string \-  (strings)
.SH PURPOSE
Create a new string.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

new-string <variable> length <length>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
New empty string <variable> of length <length> is allocated. The <variable> is an empty string (i.e. ""), however <length> bytes are allocated.

new-string is useful when you need to create a block of memory of certain length, and then change its individual bytes (such as with set-string).

Note that if <length> is a numeric literal, then <variable> will be allocated statically if <length> is lesser than 1024 bytes; this makes such strings faster at run time, especially for server processes. In all other cases, <variable> is dynamically allocated from the heap.

Also note that <variable> (like all strings, text, binary and however allocated) has an implicit null byte placed after <length> bytes.

.SH EXAMPLES
Create new string and alter it with new content and to be of length 2:

.RS 4
.EX

new-string my_string length 30
set-string my_string[0] = 'A'
set-string my_string[1] = 'B'
set-string my_string length 2
print-out my_string new-line

.EE
.RE

The output of above code would be "AB".
.SH SEE ALSO
 Strings

\fBcopy-string\fP  
\fBcount-substring\fP  
\fBdelete-string\fP  
\fBdouble-string\fP  
\fBlower-string\fP  
\fBmatch-regex\fP  
\fBnew-string\fP  
\fBnumber-string\fP  
\fBread-split\fP  
\fBreplace-string\fP  
\fBscan-string\fP  
\fBset-string\fP  
\fBsplit-string\fP  
\fBstring-double\fP  
\fBstring-expressions\fP  
\fBstring-length\fP  
\fBstring-number\fP  
\fBtrim-string\fP  
\fBupper-string\fP  
\fBwrite-string\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
