.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
number-string \-  (numbers)
.SH PURPOSE
Convert number to string.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

number-string <number> [ to <string> ] \\
    [ base <base> ] \\
    [ status <status> ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
<number> is converted to <string> in "to" clause, using <base> in "base" clause, where <base> is by default 10. <base> can be between 2 and 36, inclusive. <number> can be positive or negative (i.e. signed) and can be of any integer type up to 64-bit (char, int, long, long long etc.).  If "to" clause is omitted, then <number> is printed out.

Note that any letters in <string> (depending on the <base>) are always lower-case.

If there is an error, such as if <base> is incorrect, then <status> number (in "status" clause) is GG_ERR_FAILED, otherwise it's GG_OKAY.

If number-string prints out a number (i.e. "to" clause is omitted), and this is within \fBwrite-string\fP, then <number> is output into the buffer that builds a new string.

.LP
.B SHORTCUT
.LP

For convenience, you can use a shortcut for converting a string to a number, by prepending a "$" sign to the variable name, for example:

.RS 4
.EX

set-number n = -10
set-string s = "This is number " + $n

.EE
.RE

The above is the same as:

.RS 4
.EX

set-number n = -10
number-string n to sval
set-string s = "This is number " + sval

.EE
.RE

Effectively, $ in front of a number variable is the same as number-string that converts it to a string with the base of 10. If a string cannot be converted to a number, your program will error out. To check values with a status, or to use different bases, use number-string.

You can use $ for an expression, in which case the expression must be within parenthesis:

.RS 4
.EX

set-number n1 = -10
set-number n2 = 15
set-string s = "This is number " + $(n1+n2)

.EE
.RE

In this case number "s" will have value of "This is number 5", because numbers -10 and 15 are added to produce 5, which is then converted to a string and finally added to the first string.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following will allocate memory for string "x" to be "801":

.RS 4
.EX

set-number x = 801
number-string x to res 

.EE
.RE

The following will store "-238f" to string "res":

.RS 4
.EX

set-number x = -9103
number-string x to res base 16

.EE
.RE

To print out a number -131:

.RS 4
.EX

set-number x = -131
number-string x

.EE
.RE

