.TH GLIIMLY 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
read-json \-  (JSON-parsing)
.SH PURPOSE
Read data elements of JSON document.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

read-json <json> \\
    [ key <key> ] \\
    [ value <value> ] \\
    [ type <type> ] \\
    [ next ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
read-json reads data elements from <json> variable, which is created with \fBjson-doc\fP. A data element is a string <key>/<value> pair of a leaf node, where key (in "key" clause) is a normalized key name, which is the value's name preceded with the names of all objects and array members leading up to it, separated by a dot ("."). 

The actual <value> is obtained with "value" clause, and the <type> of value can be obtained with "type" clause. 

<type> is a number that can be GG_JSON_TYPE_STRING, GG_JSON_TYPE_NUMBER, GG_JSON_TYPE_REAL, GG_JSON_TYPE_BOOL and GG_JSON_TYPE_NULL for string, number, real (floating point), boolean and null values respectively. Note that <value> is always a string representation of these types.

Use "next" clause to move to the next sequential key/value pair in the document, from top down. Typically, you would get a key first, examine if it's of interest to you, and then obtain value. This is because Gliimly uses "lazy" approach where value is not copied until needed; with this approach JSON parsing is faster.

If there are no more data elements to read, <type> is GG_JSON_TYPE_NONE.

<key> in "key" clause is a normalized name of any given leaf node in JSON text. This means every non-leaf node is included (such as arrays and objects), separated by a dot ("."), and arrays are indexed with "[]". An example would be:

.RS 4
.EX

"menu"."popup"."menuitem"[1]."onclick"

.EE
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES
See \fBjson-doc\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - JSON parsing

\fBjson-doc\fP  
\fBread-json\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
