.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
read-set \-  (set)
.SH PURPOSE
Get data from set.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

// Random access to set data:

read-set <set> \\
    key <key> \\
    value <value> \\
    [ delete [ <delete> ] ] \\
    [ status <status> ] 

// Sequential access to set data:

read-set <set> traverse begin

read-set <set> traverse \\
    key <key> \\
    value <value>  \\
    [ delete [ <delete> ] ] \\
    [ status <status> ] \\

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
.B WITHOUT "TRAVERSE" CLAUSE
.LP

read-set will obtain an element from <set>, which is a string <value> (in "value" clause) based on a string <key> (in "key" clause). <set> was created by \fBnew-set\fP. 

You can also delete an element from the set by using "delete" clause - the <value> is still obtained though it is no longer in the set. The set element is deleted if "delete" clause is used without boolean variable <delete>, or if <delete> evaluates to true.

If no <key> was found in the set, <status> number (in "status" clause) is GG_ERR_EXIST and <value> is unchanged, otherwise <status> is GG_OKAY. 

.LP
.B WITH "TRAVERSE" CLAUSE
.LP

read-set with "traverse" clause obtains <key> and <value> of the current element, and then positions to the next one. You can also delete this element from the set by using "delete" clause - the <key> and <value> are still obtained though the element is no longer in the set. The set element is deleted if "delete" clause is used without boolean variable <delete>, or if <delete> evaluates to true.

Use "begin" clause to position at the very first element. This is useful if you wish to get all the key/value pairs from a set - note they are not extracted in any particular order. When there are no more elements, <key> and <value> are unchanged and <status> number (in "status" clause) is GG_ERR_EXIST, otherwise <status> is GG_OKAY.

You may search, add or delete elements while traversing a set, and this will be reflected in all elements not yet traversed.

.SH EXAMPLES
In this example, a new set is created, a key/value pair is written to it, and then the value is obtained and the element deleted; return status is checked:

.RS 4
.EX

// Create new set
new-set h 

// Write to a set
write-set h key "X0029" value "some data"

// Read from a set 
read-set h key "X0029" value res status f delete
if-true f equal GG_ERR_EXIST
    @No data in the set!
else-if
    @Deleted value is <<p-out res>>
end-if

.EE
.RE

The following will traverse the entire set and display all the data:

.RS 4
.EX

// Position at the beginning of the set 
read-set h traverse begin
start-loop
    // Get elements, one by one, until NULL returned as a key
    read-set h traverse key k value r status f
    if-true f equal GG_ERR_EXIST
        break;
    end-if
    pf-out "Key [%s] data [%s]\en", k, r
end-loop

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Set

\fBget-set\fP  
\fBnew-set\fP  
\fBpurge-set\fP  
\fBread-set\fP  
\fBresize-set\fP  
\fBwrite-set\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
