.TH GLIIM 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
read-line \-  (files)
.SH PURPOSE
Read text file line by line in a loop.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

read-line <file> to <line content> [ status <status> ] [ delimiter <delimiter> ] 

<any code>

end-read-line

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
read-line starts the loop in which a text <file> is read line by line into string <line content>, with end-read-line ending this loop. Once the end of <file> has been reached, or an error occurs, the loop exits. 

<file> can be a full path name, or a path relative to the application home directory (see \fBdirectories\fP). 

<status> number will be GG_ERR_READ if there is an error in reading file, or GG_ERR_OPEN if file cannot be opened, or GG_OKAY if end-of-file has been reached. Check for error after end-read-line statement. If a line was read successfully, then <status> is its length. 

<line content> is allocated when a line is read and freed just before the next line is read or if there are no more lines to read. If you want to use <line content> outside of this scope, save it or stash it somewhere first.

String <delimiter> separates the lines in the file, and is by default new line, however it can be any character (note that it is a first character of string <delimiter>).

A new line (or a <delimiter>) remains in <line content> if it was present in the file (note that the very last line may not have it). 


Use \fBbreak-loop\fP and \fBcontinue-loop\fP statements to exit and continue the loop.

.SH EXAMPLES
To read a text file line by line, and display as a web page with line breaks:

.RS 4
.EX

out-header default
read-line "/home/bear/tmp/ll/filexx" to one_line status st
    string-length one_line to line_len
    @Line length is <<p-num line_len>>, line is <<p-web one_line>> status <<p-num st>><br/>
end-read-line
if-true st lesser-than 0
    get-req error to err
    @Error in reading, error [<<p-out err>>]
end-if

.EE
.RE

To read a text file delimited by "|" character:

.RS 4
.EX

read-line "/home/user/dir/file" to one_line status len delimiter '|'
\[char46]..

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Files

\fBclose-file\fP  
\fBcopy-file\fP  
\fBdelete-file\fP  
\fBfile-position\fP  
\fBfile-storage\fP  
\fBfile-uploading\fP  
\fBlock-file\fP  
\fBopen-file\fP  
\fBread-file\fP  
\fBread-line\fP  
\fBrename-file\fP  
\fBstat-file\fP  
\fBtemporary-file\fP  
\fBuniq-file\fP  
\fBunlock-file\fP  
\fBwrite-file\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
