.TH RIM 2rim $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
rimcli \-  (FastCGI-client)
.SH PURPOSE
FastCGI client utility.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

rimcli <address:port> | <Unix socket>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
rimcli will contact FastCGI server running on TCP/IP machine specified by <address:port>, where address can be an IP of the machine or its address, and port is the port number. For local sockets, use <Unix socket>, which is a file name of a socket used by the server; note you need to have proper permissions to access this socket file.

rimcli will send a request to the server, receive a reply and display it to standard output. Any errors are displayed to standard error stream.

Use standard environment variables in order to specify the details of the request. The environment variables recognized by rimcli are CONTENT_TYPE, CONTENT_LENGTH, REQUEST_METHOD, SCRIPT_NAME, PATH_INFO, QUERY_STRING (which are all standard HTTP CGI variables), as well as RimStone's variable RIM_SILENT_HEADER which is used to suppress header output (value of "yes" will do that).

The above variables are not explained here; you can find much about them in many other sources. Please note that if CONTENT_LENGTH is specified, then rimcli expect content data to be provided to its standard input.

You can see the examples of setting the above environment variables and the usage of rimcli if you use "-r" option of \fBrim\fP; if you skip "--exec" option, rim will display the settings and the usage of rimcli utility.

Note that you should be able to use rimcli when talking to any FastCGI server (such as PHP), not just RimStone.
.SH SEE ALSO
 FastCGI client

\fBrimcli\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
