.TH GLIIM 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
run-remote \-  (distributed-computing)
.SH PURPOSE
Call a remote service in a single statement.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

run-remote <service> \\
    ( local <app name> ) | ( location <location> ) \\
    url-path <service URL> |
        ( \\
        app-path <app path> \\
        request-path <request path> \\
        [ url-params <url params> ] \\
        ) \\
    [ request-body content <content> \\
        [ content-length <content length> ] \\
        [ content-type <content type> ] ] \\
    [ method <request method> ] \\
    [ environment <name>=<value> [ , ... ] ] \\
    [ timeout <timeout> ]\\
    [ status <status> ]  \\
    [ started <started> ] \\
    [ finished-okay <finished okay> ]\\
    [ data <data> ] \\
    [ error <error> ] \\
    [ status <status> ] \\
    [ status-text <status text> ] \\
    [ handler-status <service status> ]

.EE
.RE
`
.SH DESCRIPTION
run-remote is a combination of \fBnew-remote\fP, \fBcall-remote\fP and \fBread-remote\fP in one. Clauses for each of those can be specified in any order. Only a single <service> can be used. If a call to <service> succeeds, its results are read. Use either:

.RS 4
\[bu]    
<status> (in "status" clause) to check if there are results to be read: if it is GG_OKAY, then you can use the results.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
<finished okay> (in "finished-okay" clause) to check if service call executed: if it's 1, then it has.
.RE

See details for each clause in \fBnew-remote\fP (for "local" through "timeout" clauses), \fBcall-remote\fP (for "status" through "finished-okay" clauses) and \fBread-remote\fP (for "data" through "handler-status" clauses).

.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 4
.EX

begin-handler /serv
    out-header default

    run-remote nf local "hash-server-yey" \\
        url-path "/hash-server-yey/server/op=add/key=sb_XYZ/data=sdb_123" \\
        finished-okay sfok \\
        data rdata error edata  \\
        status st handler-status rstatus
    if-true sfok  not-equal  1 or st  not-equal  GG_OKAY
        @Call did not succeed
    else-if
        @Result is <<p-out rdata> and (any) error is <<p-out edata>>
    end-if

end-handler

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Distributed computing

\fBcall-remote\fP  
\fBnew-remote\fP  
\fBread-remote\fP  
\fBrun-remote\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
