.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
set-cookie \-  (cookies)
.SH PURPOSE
Set cookie.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

set-cookie ( <cookie name>=<cookie value> \\
    [ expires <expiration> ] \\
    [ path <path> ] \\
    [ same-site "Lax"|"Strict"|"None" ] \\
    [ no-http-only [ <no-http-only> ] ] \\
    [ secure [ <secure> ] ] ) ,...

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
To set a cookie named by string <cookie name> to string value <cookie value>, use set-cookie statement. A cookie must be set prior to outputting any actual response (such as with \fBoutput-statement\fP or \fBp-out\fP for example), or the program will \fBerror out\fP and stop. 

Cookie's <expiration> date (as a a string, see \fBget-time\fP) is given with "expires" clause. The default is session cookie meaning the cookie expires when client session closes.

Cookie's <path> is specified with "path" clause. The default is the URL path of the \fBrequest\fP URL.

Whether a cookie applies to the same site is given with "same-site" clause along with possible values of "Lax", "Strict" or "None". 

By default a cookie is not accessible to client scripting (i.e. "HttpOnly") -you can change this with "no-http-only" clause. That will be the case if "no-http-only" clause is used without bool expression <no-http-only>, or if <no-http-only> evaluates to true.

Use "secure" if a secure connection (https) is used, in order to specify this cookie is available only with a secure connection. That will be the case if "secure" is used without bool expression <secure>, or if <secure> evaluates to true.

Cookies are commonly used for session maintenance, tracking and other purposes. Use \fBget-cookie\fP and \fBdelete-cookie\fP together with set-cookie to manage cookies.

You can set multiple cookies separated by a comma:

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to tm year 1
set-cookie "mycookie1"="4900" expires tm path "/", "mycookie2"="900" expires tm  path "/my-app" same-site "Strict"

.EE
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES
To set a cookie named "my_cookie_name" to value "XYZ", that will go with the reply and expire in 1 year and 2 months from now, use:

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to mytime year 1 month 2
set-string my_cookie_value="XYZ"
set-cookie "my_cookie_name"=my_cookie_value expires mytime path "/" same-site "Lax"

.EE
.RE

A cookie that can be used by JavaScript (meaning we use no-http-only clause):

.RS 4
.EX

set-cookie "my_cookie_name"=my_cookie_value no-http-only

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Cookies

\fBdelete-cookie\fP  
\fBget-cookie\fP  
\fBset-cookie\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
