.TH GOLF 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
write-set \-  (set)
.SH PURPOSE
Store key/value pair into a set.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

write-set <set> \\
    key <key> \\
    value <value> \\
    [ status <status> ] \\
    [ old-value <old value> ] 

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
write-set will store string <key> (in "key" clause) and <value> (in "value" clause) into <set>, which must be created with \fBnew-set\fP. 

<key> and <value> are collectively called an "element". 

If <key> already exists in the set, then the old value associated with it is returned in string <old value> (in "old-value" clause) and <value> will replace the old value - in this case <status> number (in "status" clause) has a value of GG_INFO_EXIST. 

If <key> did not exist, <status> will be GG_OKAY and <old value> is unchanged.

If a <set> was created with "process-scope" clause (see \fBnew-set\fP), then the element (including <key> and <value>) will not be freed when the current request ends, rather it will persist while the process runs, unless deleted (see \fBread-set\fP with delete clause).

.SH EXAMPLES
Writing data to a set:

.RS 4
.EX

new-set h 
write-set h key "mykey" value "some data"

.EE
.RE

Writing new value with the same key and obtaining the previous value (which is "some data"):

.RS 4
.EX

write-set h key "mykey" value "new data" status st old-value od
if-true st equal GG_INFO_EXIST
    @Previous value for this key is <<p-out od>>
end-if

.EE
.RE

The following is a  key/value service, where a process-scoped set is created. It provides inserting, deleting and querying key/value pairs. Such a service process can run indefinitely. Create file keysrv.golf:

.RS 4
.EX

%% /keysrv public
    do-once
    new-set h hash-size 1024 process-scope
    end-do-once

    // Get input parameters
    get-param op
    get-param key
    get-param data

    if-true op equal "add" // Add data to set make a copy as input params are request-scoped
        write-set h key key value data old-value old_data status st
        if-true st equal GG_INFO_EXIST
            delete-string old_data
        end-if
        @Added [<<p-out key>>]
    else-if op equal "delete" // Delete data and obtain the value deleted
        read-set h key (key) value val delete status st
        if-true st equal GG_ERR_EXIST
            @Not found [<<p-out key>>]
        else-if
            // If found, then delete key and value
            @Deleted [<<p-out val>>]
            delete-string val
        end-if
    else-if op equal "query" // Query set based on key value
        read-set h key (key) value val status st
        if-true st equal GG_ERR_EXIST
            @Not found, queried [<<p-out key>>]
        else-if
            @Value [<<p-out val>>]
        end-if
    end-if
%%

.EE
.RE

Create and make the application, then run it as service:

.RS 4
.EX

// Create application
gg -k arr
// Make application
gg -q
// Start application (single process key service)
mgrg -w 1 arr

.EE
.RE

Try it from a command line client (see \fBgg\fP):

.RS 4
.EX

// Add data
gg -r --req="/keysrv/op=add/key=15/data=15" --service --app="/arr" --exec
// Query data
gg -r --req="/keysrv/op=query/key=15" --service --app="/arr" --exec
// Delete data
gg -r --req="/keysrv/op=delete/key=15" --service --app="/arr" --exec

.EE
.RE

See \fBread-set\fP for more examples.
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Set

\fBget-set\fP  
\fBnew-set\fP  
\fBpurge-set\fP  
\fBread-set\fP  
\fBresize-set\fP  
\fBwrite-set\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
