.TH GLIIM 2gg $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
write-string \-  (strings)
.SH PURPOSE
Create complex strings.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

write-string <string>

<any code>

end-write-string [ notrim ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
Output of any Gliimly code can be written into <string> with write-string. In between write-string and end-write-string you can write <any Gliimly code>. For instance you can use database queries, conditional statements etc., just as you would for any other Gliimly code. 

.LP
.B SHORTCUT CODE
.LP

Note that instead of write-string you can also use a shortcut "(("  (and instead of end-write-string you can use "))"  ), for example here a string "fname" holds a full path of a file named "config-install.gliim" under the application home directory (see \fBdirectories\fP):

.RS 4
.EX

get-app directory to home_dir
(( fname
@<<p-out home_dir>>/config-install.gliim
))

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B TRIMMING
.LP

Just like with all other Gliimly code, every line is trimmed both on left and write, so this:

.RS 4
.EX

(( mystr
@Some string
))

.EE
.RE

is the same as:

.RS 4
.EX

(( mystr
        @Some string <whitespaces>
))

.EE
.RE

write-string (or "((") statement must always be on a line by itself (and so does end-write-string, or "))" statement). The string being built starts with the line following write-string, and ends with the line immediately prior to end-write-string. 

All trailing empty lines are removed, for example:

.RS 4
.EX

(( mystr
        @My string
        @
        @
))

.EE
.RE

the above string would have two trailing empty lines, however they will be removed. If you want to skip trimming the trailing whitespaces, use "notrim" clause in end-write-string.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B - Simple

A simple example:

.RS 4
.EX

set-string my_str="world"
set-string my_str1="and have a nice day too!"

write-string result_str
@Hello <<p-out my_str>> (<<p-out my_str1>>)
end-write-string

p-out result_str

.EE
.RE

The output is 

.RS 4
.EX

Hello world (and have a nice day too!)

.EE
.RE



.B - Using code inside

Here is using Gliimly code inside write-string, including database query and conditional statements to produce different strings at run-time:

.RS 4
.EX

get-param selector

set-string my_str="world"

write-string result_str
    if-true selector equal "simple"
        @Hello <<p-out my_string>> (and have a nice day too!)
    else-if selector equal "database"
        run-query @db="select name from employee" output name
            @Hello <<p-out name>>
            @<br/>
        end-query
    else-if
        @No message
    end-if
end-write-string

p-out result_str

.EE
.RE

If selector variable is "simple", as in URL 

.RS 4
.EX

https://mysite.com/<app name>/some-service?selector=simple

.EE
.RE

the result is 

.RS 4
.EX

Hello world (and have a nice day too!)

.EE
.RE

If selector variable is "database", as in URL 

.RS 4
.EX

https://mysite.com/<app name>/some-service?selector=database

.EE
.RE

the result may be (assuming "Linda" and "John" are the two employees selected):

.RS 4
.EX

Hello Linda
<br/>
Hello John
<br/>

.EE
.RE

If selector variable is anything else, as in URL 

.RS 4
.EX

https://mysite.com/<app name>/some-service?selector=something_else

.EE
.RE

the result is 

.RS 4
.EX

No message

.EE
.RE


.B - Using call-handlers calls inside

The following uses a call-handler inside write-string:

.RS 4
.EX

set-string result_str=""
write-string result_str
    @<<p-out "Result from other-service">> is <<call-handler "/other-service">>
end-write-string
p-out result_str

.EE
.RE

The "other-service" may be:

.RS 4
.EX

begin-handler /other-service public
    @"Hello from other service"
end-handler

.EE
.RE

The output:

.RS 4
.EX

Result from other-service is Hello from other service

.EE
.RE



.B - Nesting

An example to nest write-strings:

.RS 4
.EX

write-string str1
    @Hi!
    write-string str2
        @Hi Again!
   end-write-string
   p-out str2
end-write-string
p-out str1

.EE
.RE

The result is 

.RS 4
.EX

Hi!
Hi Again!

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Strings

\fBcopy-string\fP  
\fBcount-substring\fP  
\fBdelete-string\fP  
\fBlower-string\fP  
\fBread-split\fP  
\fBreplace-string\fP  
\fBset-string\fP  
\fBsplit-string\fP  
\fBstring-length\fP  
\fBtrim-string\fP  
\fBupper-string\fP  
\fBwrite-string\fP   
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
